The Bible identifies a second source of help that Jehovah has given us so that we can
experience the joy of making disciples.
That gift is described at 1 Peter, chapter 5, and verse 9.
Please read that with me.
1 Peter, chapter 5, and verse 9.
But take your stand against him, firm in the faith, knowing that the same kind of sufferings
are being experienced by the entire association of your brothers in the world.
What hope has Jehovah given us?
It's our worldwide association of brothers and sisters.
Just as their example can help us to endure, our brothers can also help us meet the challenges
in the ministry.
Yes, Jehovah has given us a large spiritual family, and that shows that he wants us to experience
the joy of working together.
Now we might be thinking, that's encouraging, but is it realistic to think that I can experience
the joy of making a disciple?
Perhaps you've had Bible studies, but none of them have yet progressed to the point of
dedication and baptism.
So you might wonder, am I really up to that challenge?
Or maybe you're a parent who's newer in the truth, and you're thinking to yourself,
how can I reach my child's heart and help him or her learn to love Jehovah as I do?
Or maybe you're dealing with poor health, or the effects of old age, and you wonder,
can I have an effective ministry?
Brothers and sisters, we want you to take heart.
Jehovah has provided help, and help may be near than you think.
To highlight the help that Jehovah gives to all of us for a few moments, let's consider
the Apostle Paul's experience.
When we think of the Apostle Paul, what comes to mind?
Perhaps a very hard-working, energetic brother who traveled extensively as a missionary.
And can there be any doubt that Paul's ministry was a complete success?
What was Paul's success, the result of his efforts alone?
No.
Paul needed and humbly accepted help from others.
For example, you may recall reading in Acts 16 and 17, how the man Silas traveled with
Paul.
On that trip in the city of Philippi, Paul and Silas shared the joy of helping an entire
family become baptized to disciples.
Now there's something very interesting in the Bible's record of that account.
Every time Paul is mentioned, Silas is mentioned as well.
In fact, the expression, Paul and Silas occurs six times in quick succession.
Well, what do we learn from that?
Clearly, Paul had help in his ministry.
He did not go it alone.
Now young ones, a question for you.
Can you think of another close friend of Paul who often traveled with him?
You got it right, Timothy.
For about fourteen years, the two of them worked together in Jehovah's service.
Now did Paul, the more experienced man, really view Timothy as a helper as someone who could
assist him?
Yes, he did.
As Paul neared the end of his life, for example, he wrote to Timothy, his younger friend,
and said, Do your utmost to come to me shortly.
Paul was not too proud to ask for help.
In Acts chapter 18, the Bible tells us about a married couple, Aquila and his wife Priscilla
or Priska, who supported Paul.
In the city of Corinth, they welcomed Paul not only into their home, but also into the
business of making tents.
Now can you imagine how much joy these three must have had as they worked together, not
only in the secular trade of making tents, but also in advancing the kingdom good news?
Now when Paul left Corinth, do you know what happened with Aquila and Priscilla?
They followed him to Ephesus.
Their Aquila and Priscilla used their home as a meeting place for the local congregation.
Their helpful services continued.
In Acts chapter 18, at verse 24, we learned that this couple became acquainted with Apollas.
A Christian from Egypt, who, according to the scriptural account, was an eloquent man
and well-versed in the Scriptures.
Even so, Apollas needed some help because he had some gaps in his understanding.
So what did help Priscilla and Aquila do?
Acts chapter 18 verse 26 tells us, they took Apollas into their company and explained
the way of God more accurately to him.
Now think of that for a moment.
This humble couple, tent makers, were not intimidated by Apollas.
To them he was a brother, a part of the family, and out of brotherly love they took the initiative
to give him the help that he needed.
While in thinking about Paul and how he viewed those that assisted him, how do you think
he felt about this beautiful couple?
Please open your Bible with me to Paul's own words that Jehovah preserved in Romans
chapter 16 verses 3 and 4.
Let's Romans chapter 16 verses 3 and 4.
Let's read it together.
Give my greetings to Priska or Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus
who have risked their own next for me and to whom not only I but also all the congregations
of the nations give thanks.
Deep appreciation is what Paul felt for this loyal couple.
He viewed them as his fellow workers.
Now what does all of that we've discussed tell us about the Apostle Paul?
Clearly the success he enjoyed in his ministry was not the result of his efforts alone.
Jehovah gave Paul the help he needed to have an effective ministry and that help came
in the form of many brothers and sisters.
Dear brothers and sisters, Jehovah has given you and given me the same help.
In the following dramatization, please notice how Anita benefits from the help of another
sister.
I've tried everything to get day to a meeting.
It's every Thursday and Sunday and I think I think you'd really enjoy it.
I can't promise anything.
It would be nice if you could come.
Have you tried bringing other people on the study?
Well maybe not everything.
What are you doing tomorrow after me?
Long time since I hear them.
You know that band?
Know them.
I used to see them all the time before I'm a witness.
No way.
You like that kind of music.
You don't believe me?
Have you gay?
I was young.
You were in a band.
We have that vinyl.
So I'll be gone next week but I'll have someone else take care of the study.
Did you notice how Anita responded to the suggestion that was given her?
Applying that council brought good results.
Like Anita, we may need specific help to accomplish our ministry fully.
For example, when it comes to making return visits and conducting Bible studies,
could some brothers and sisters in your congregation help you to improve your skills?
Likely, all of us would benefit by reaching out to such publishers who have gained experience
and skill in those aspects of the ministry.
What if you're a parent who wants to instill love for Jehovah in the heart of your child?
How about asking some other parents or grandparents for advice?
If they've had success raising their children to love Jehovah and become baptized disciples,
they will certainly be happy to share their experience with you.
And what if we have age, limitations, or health concerns?
We may need practical assistance that accommodates our needs.
For example, at many Bethel homes, elderly and infirm brothers and sisters are still having a regular
and productive share in the ministry.
Do you know how?
Elders at Bethel arranged for younger publishers to join the elderly ones in letter writing and phone witnessing.
One sister by the name of Nancy, who was nearly 90 years old at the time, said this.
I don't view letter writing as just stuffing envelopes.
This is field service.
People need to know the truth.
How encouraging.
Did you know that in less than a year, one group of precious older ones devoted over 1,000 hours to the ministry,
wrote over 6,000 letters, made over 2,000 phone calls, and placed over 6,000 pieces of literature?
What good was accomplished by working together and what joy they experienced?
Of course, we have to admit that it takes humility to acknowledge that we need help.
But in this we can learn from Apollos.
Though eloquent, though well versed in the Scriptures, he accepted the help that he needed.
As a result, he benefited and all those that he would teach thereafter benefited.
So here's the point.
Can you think of someone like Priscilla or Aquila, who could give you the help you need?
If so, why not explain your needs and ask that person to join you in the ministry or on Bible studies?
Now, if you've been serving Jehovah for a time, are you in a position to help others?
If so, we encourage you to be observant, take the initiative to offer assistance.
If you see that a brother or sister would benefit from a kind suggestion, don't hold back.
At an appropriate time, you might begin the conversation in a friendly way by saying,
may I offer you a suggestion, or here's what I try to do.
Remember, if we're kind and thoughtful like Aquila and Priscilla, likely our words and example
will prove to be a blessing to help our brothers find joy in making disciples too.
Well, in the second part of this symposium, what have we learned?
First, our brothers are a gift from Jehovah to help us make disciples.
And second, when we work together and support one another, all of us can find great joy in our precious ministry.
Now, Brother Garrett Loesch, a member of the governing body will consider the third and final talk of this symposium,
experience the joy of disciples making except Jehovah's help prayer.